# ONLINE CALENDAR EVENT PLANNER
#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Description:
My project is a website that handles event planning using online calendar. You can create an account with which you can add, edit and delete events. To achieve this I used Python, SQLite3, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Additionally frameworks like Flask, Bootstrap and cs50 library for SQLite3 were used. Database stores information about user's account like id, username, hashed password and e-mail. There's table alsofor user's events and history of actions which both contains id, user_id (which is forein key that referenses users table id), title, description and date of the event and the latter stores also information about timestamp and type of action. Static folder contains styles.css describing some of the webpage elements looks and scripts.js that handles events on website to make it more interactive like timer displaying current hour, event listeners for window pop-up in settings subpage and bolding dates on calendar in which some event is happening.
### Layout
Starting from templates folders in which are HTML files which are contents of the website. First one is layout.html in which is baseline for every other subpage. There is navbar created with help of bootstrap where, depending if the user is logged in or not, content is different. With logged in user we have links to corresponding subpages like main page (the calendar itself), add event subpage, list with all of the user's events and history of taken actions. Right side though contains clock made with JavaScript, menu for user's settings and log out option. The main content of the webside depends on which subpage we are going.
### Register
First we need to register an account to have accesibility to all the content and it can be done with register icon on right side of the navbar. Register site is simple, it is a form with four inputs: username, password, password confirmation and e-mail. In app.py I gather information from user through those inputs with request.form.get function. Every of that input has an required attribute but even if user tries to omit that, I detect this app.py and also if passwords does not match user gets notification about that. Passwords then get hashed and upon registration e-mail is sent on success informing about it thanks to Flask-Mail.
### Login
If account already exists we can use login button to log in into site. Login page is somewhat similar to register but with only username and password field. In app.py I compare data sent by user through input fields with SQLite query to the database and check_password_hash function if they are indeed the same so user can log into the site. On successful log in there is notification.
### Settings
This page cotains also subpage for account settings in which user can change its password, e-mail and also terminate account. Account termination is confirmed by pop-up window which was made possible with JavaScript. Password is changed, like in registration, through hashing function. When user deletes its account not only data in users table is deleted but also from history and events tables to save space in database.
### Calendar
The main page of this website is calendar itself. There is option to cycle through months and years using inputs as displays with value attribute. In app.py information about currently displayed date is extracted from website and according to that the dates are changed on calendar. Every month's days are printed with loop using datetime and calendar libraries. For bolding days that contains event there's also a loop that when printing days, checks dictionary keys and if key matches currently printing day it is bolded and added a tooltip (using JavaScript) showing title or titles in said tooltip. If there are more events on one day, values of that dictonary's key is transformed to a list and displayed as one.
### Add Event
Add event page contains a form that allows users to add events to database. In said form there is an input for title, description and date of the event. Date input type returns a date in format YYYY-MM-DDTH:M so to to use it with Python I had to use datetime function called strptime and describe formatting in second argument of this function. All of inputs have required attribute set but I'm still checking in app.py if inputs are filled and also if date is correct, meaning that it is later than current day. If not, according notification is displayed on site. After that, SQLite query is made with data given by user to events table and also to history table to track user's actions.
### List Events
This subpage lists all of user's events in tables using flask and loop through every event in database with corresponding user id of current session. There are also buttons that allows to edit or delete event in table row. To correctly display dates in table I wrote a function that filters date on site with flask. Form can be found on this site with which user can type title or description of event, it does not have to be a complete name but a fraction of it, to find it. User can also filter events by dates. If user will not fill date or any at all, because date input type returns empty string, I have to check which date is not filled and set that date so SQLite query is correct. 
### Edit Event
If user selects an edit button from list events subpage, redirection occurs to edit event. It is very similar to "Add event" but with difference that every inputs are filled with selected row's data. To every edit and delete button value attribute is set with corresponding id of the event. Thanks to that I can extract from database which event was selected. If "Edit" button is pressed